docs: Adding Skeleton SPEC (#25447)
microsoft/fluentui: packages/react-components/react-skeleton/SPEC.md

# @fluentui/react-skeleton Spec

## Background

> The `Skeleton` component is a temporary animation placeholder for when a service call takes time to return data and we don't want to block rendering the rest of the UI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Skeleton` component is a temporary placeholder for UI that is in a loading state.
```

| Fast       | Skeleton       | [Skeleton](https://explore.fast.design/components/fast-skeleton)                | Has three components: `Avatar`, `List`, and `Button`. No shape variants.                                                                                               |
| UI Fabric  | Shimmer        | [Shimmer](https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/fluentui#/controls/web/shimmer) | Shimmer has a way to pass in custom elements as well as the defaults. There is also a prop to change the colors of the Skeleton components.                            |

### Comparison of v8 and v0

The existing components are:

- v8
  - `Shimmer`
- v0

## Sample Code

Basic example:

```jsx
import { Skeleton, SkeletonItem } from '@fluentui/react-skeleton';

function App() {
  return (
    <Skeleton>
      <SkeletonItem />
    </Skeleton>
  );
}
```

## Variants

- There are three basic `Skeleton` shapes
  - `Rectangle`
  - `Circle`

>   - `Square`

Reviewer: What's the advantage of having square when we already have rectangle?

Author: The idea is to allow the users to specify one `size` prop and one `shape` prop and have it render the shape without having to specify `height` and `width`

Reviewer: In that case how does a user specify the dimensions of a rectangle?

Author: For the case of a rectangle, the default width is set to `auto` and users can pass a value to the `size` prop, which will set the height of the rectangle. If they want a specific width, they can add some styling to set the width.

### Shape

The `Skeleton` is a combination of any of the two shapes in order to represent the content that will be loaded onto the screen. That is, it is a combination of rectangles and circles that is a visual representation of the wireframe of a page.

## API

### Slots

- `root` - The root slot of the `Skeleton` is the container that will contain the slots that make up a `Skeleton` and any data that the `Skeleton` will load. The default html element is a `svg`.

### Props

> See API at [Skeleton.types.tsx]().

Reviewer 2: I think this has to point to the file:
```suggestion
See API at [Skeleton.types.ts](./src/components/Skeleton/Skeleton.types.ts).
```

> See API at [Skeleton.types.tsx]().

Reviewer 2: It would also be nice to have a reference to how the sub components will work or how they will be used with Skeleton.

## Prior Art

### Open UI

| Library    | Component Name | Spec Link                                                                       | Notes                                                                                                                                                                  |
| ---------- | -------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Ant Design | Skeleton       | [Skeleton](https://ant.design/components/skeleton/)                             | Has an `avatar`, `button`, `list`, and `togglebutton`. Has animated and non-animated versions, and shape variants for the component skeletons(rounded or rectangular). |
| Fast       | Skeleton       | [Skeleton](https://explore.fast.design/components/fast-progress)                | Has three components: `Avatar`, `List`, and `Button`. No shape variants.                                                                                               |

> | UI Fabric  | Shimmer        | [Shimmer](https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/fluentui#/controls/web/shimmer) | Shimmer has a way to pass in custom elements as well as the defaults. There is also a prop to change the colors of the Skeleton components.                            |

Reviewer 3: FYI https://react.semantic-ui.com/elements/placeholder/

Reviewer: What do you see as the advantages of this API compared with the existing Fluent one?

Considering that we've avoided layout components like `Stack` in Fluent v9 it seems we should also avoid adding components like `Skeleton.Header` as it appears to just be for layout (correct me if I'm wrong here though!)

Reviewer 3: > What do you see as the advantages of this API compared with the existing Fluent one?

I don't see API examples in the spec currently (or in #25452), so it's hard to say 😉 

> Considering that we've avoided layout components like Stack in Fluent v9 it seems we should also avoid adding components like Skeleton.Header as it appears to just be for layout (correct me if I'm wrong here though!)

Yes, correct. It applies special kind of styling.

-----

My note there was to consider different approaches. For example, in v8 its:

```tsx
<ShimmerElementsGroup
  shimmerElements={[
    { type: ShimmerElementType.line, width: 40, height: 40 },
    { type: ShimmerElementType.gap, width: 10, height: 40 },
  ]}
/>
```

Which does not seem to be v9 way at all 🐱 That's why I mentioned SUIR as it something like this might be more scalable and customisable:

```tsx
<Skeleton>
  <SkeletonLine />
  <SkeletonGap />
</Skeleton>
```

However, the spec does not contain API examples yet so I don't know in which direction we are going currently.

### Comparison of v8 and v0

The existing components are:

- v8
  - `Shimmer`
- v0

## Sample Code

Basic example:

```jsx
import { Skeleton } from '@fluentui/react-skeleton';

function App() {
  return <Skeleton />;
}
```

## Variants

- There are three basic `Skeleton` shapes
  - Line
    - This typically represents content such as paragraphs on the page
  - Circle
    - This typically represents content such as an `Avatar` on the page
  - Gap
    - This represents a space between two pieces of content being rendered on a page

### Shape

The `Skeleton` is a combination of any of the three shapes in order to represent the content that will be loaded onto the screen. That is, it is a combination of lines, circles, and gaps that is a visual representation of the wireframe of a page.

> ## API

Reviewer 3: Can you please add some usage examples of API?

### Slots

- `root` - The root alot of the `Skeleton` is the container that will contain the slots that make up a `Skeleton` and any data that the `Skeleton` will load. The default html element is a `div`.

> - `wrapper` - The wrapper slot of the `Skeleton` will contain the `SkeletonElementsGroup` and the `SkeletonGradient`. The default html element is a `div`.

Reviewer 3: Is there a technical reason to have this? As it's a "wrapper" inside a "wrapper":

```html
<div class="fui-Skeleton"> <!-- 👈 a wrapper -->
  <div class="fui-Skeleton__wrapper" /> <!-- 👈 a wrapper -->
</div>
```

Author: This is for when the data is loaded into the `data` slot of the `Skeleton`, it allows the two parts (the `Skeleton` and the `data`) to be separated as children for one `Skeleton` element

Reviewer: Can you provide an example of how to use the `data` slot?

Author: I've moved away from the `data` slot approach in favor of using `React.Suspense` api. The SPEC has been changed to reflect this.

| Fast        | Skeleton       | [Skeleton](https://explore.fast.design/components/fast-skeleton)                | Has three components: `Avatar`, `List`, and `Button`. No shape variants.                                                                                               |
| Semantic UI | Placeholder    | [Placeholder](https://react.semantic-ui.com/elements/placeholder/)              | Has `Header` and `Paragraph` subcomponents. The `Header` can take in an image as a prop                                                                                |
| UI Fabric   | Shimmer        | [Shimmer](https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/fluentui#/controls/web/shimmer) | Shimmer has a way to pass in custom elements as well as the defaults. There is also a prop to change the colors of the Skeleton components.                            |

### Comparison of v8 and v0

The existing components are:

- v8
  - `Shimmer`

> - v0

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- v0
  - Does not have an existing `Skeleton` component.
```

## Sample Code

Basic example:

```jsx
import { Skeleton, SkeletonItem } from '@fluentui/react-skeleton';

function App() {
  return (
    <Skeleton>
      <SkeletonItem shape="circle" size={24} />
      <SkeletonItem shape="rectangle" size={16} />
    </Skeleton>
  );
}
```

## Variants

- There are three basic `Skeleton` shapes
  - `Rectangle`
  - `Circle`
  - `Square`

### Shape

The `Skeleton` is a combination of any of the two shapes in order to represent the content that will be loaded onto the screen. That is, it is a combination of rectangles and circles that is a visual representation of the wireframe of a page.

## API

### Slots

> - `root` - The root slot of the `Skeleton` is the container that will contain the slots that make up a `Skeleton` and any data that the `Skeleton` will load. The default html element is a `svg`.

Reviewer 4: _nit:_ wording

```suggestion
- `root` - The root slot of the `Skeleton` is the container that will contain the items that make up a `Skeleton` in representation of the data that is loading. The default html element is a `svg`.
```

### Props

See API at:

- [Skeleton.types.ts](./src/components/Skeleton/Skeleton.types.ts).
- [SkeletonItem.types.ts](./src/components/SkeletonItem/SkeletonItem.types.ts).

## Structure

```html
<!-- Container for Skeleton -->

<div class="fui-Skeleton">
  <!-- Container for SkeletonElement -->

  <div class="fui-SkeletonItem" />
</div>
```

## Migration

See [MIGRATION.md](./MIGRATION.md).

## Behaviors

### States

- **Display** - The `Skeleton` will use the following priority:

  - The `appearance` prop will allow the use of a `translucent` appearance.
  - Specifying `wave` or `pulse` will change the animation style of the `Skeleton`
  - The component also has `rtl` support and will animate the `Skeleton` from right to left if set.

>   - Setting the `shape` prop in `<SkeletonItem />` will render a `rectangle`, `square`, or a `circle`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  - Setting the `shape` prop in `<SkeletonItem />` will render a `rectangle`, `square`, or a `circle` (default is `rectangle`).
```

>   - Setting the `size` prop in `<SkeletonItem />` will allow the user to specify the size of the element.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  - Setting the `size` prop in `<SkeletonItem />` will allow the user to specify the size of the element (default is 16).
```

### Interaction

The Skeleton is non-interactive.

- **Keyboard** - Not keyboard focusable.

> - **Mouse**
> 
>   - Click: No action

Reviewer 4: Just specify `Nothing` for the mouse interaction as there is more than just click.

```suggestion
- **Mouse** - Nothing
```
